include publication (#1879)
ie3-institute/simona: docs/readthedocs/functionality/neuralstateestimation.md

> # Neural State Estimation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Training data generation for neural state estimation
```
I would prefer to focus more on generating the training data than on the SE.

SIMONA facilitates the neural state estimation workflow for distribution grids by providing high-quality synthetic training data. This workflow enables the evaluation of neural models trained on simulation data and their transferability to real-world grid measurements {cite:p}`Oberließen.2025`.

> The approach addresses challenges such as missing or erroneous measurement signals by incorporating anomaly detection and reconstruction. Furthermore, the methodology extends to stochastic state estimation, allowing for the quantification of uncertainty and the provision of estimation intervals {cite:p}`Oberließen.2025`.

Reviewer: I would like to mention, that the SE approach itself is not pursued by simona.

## Workflow & SIMONA Integration

> To perform neural state estimation, SIMONA serves as the simulation environment to generate the necessary data foundation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate training data e.g. for neural state estimation, SIMONA serves as the simulation environment to generate the necessary data foundation:
```

> 1. **Data Generation:** Create synthetic grid states and corresponding measurement data via simulation.

Reviewer: Not sure, but for me this creates the impression that simona does more than step one. So maybe simply remove this list? What do you think?

2. **Training:** Train a neural model on the generated supervised dataset.
3. **Inference:** Apply the trained model to real measurement data to estimate non-observable grid states.
4. **Assessment:** Evaluate the model’s transferability, robustness against faulty measurements, and the quality of uncertainty-aware estimates {cite:p}`Oberließen.2025`.

> By systematically varying operating conditions and measurement configurations, SIMONA provides a controlled, consistent basis for developing and analyzing robust neural estimators {cite:p}`Oberließen.2025`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By systematically varying operating conditions and measurement configurations, SIMONA can be used to provide a controlled, consistent basis for developing and analyzing robust neural estimators {cite:p}`Oberließen.2025`.
```
